Wellcome And in this lesson we're going to be building out a game.
So the game basically is going to be a set of names from an array.
It's all going to be built using javascript so nothing within the of malware can be going off an array.
It's going to scramble all the names in the array and the object of the game is to find the name that
they're specifying.
So once you hit the name then the cell disappears and you move on to the next one and you see how many
you can find and how quickly you can find them and so on.
So it's a fun little game and it's fully dynamic.
So it will update as you update even more items in the array.
So I can show you how to build this.
So let's begin.
So first thing that we want to do is set up the h t m l so we know that going over here we've got a
button.
So this is our start button and this basically starts the game and gives us the ability to restart the
game and so on.
So let's type that in sort of type and button and we'll set a value for it.
So the value for it is start.
So just like what we have here on the right hand side and we're going to do an on click.
And basically we're going to start once that gets clicked.
We're going to start the function start and I'm going to also have a class there to style it a little
bit as well let's go up to the style and let's add in some styling for the button.
So the button we've set a height for the button.
So this could be 50 picks.
We have set a with the button.
So let's do 100 picks for the with and background color so you don't have to design it the same way
that I'm doing it.
So this is just a quick button design color is going to be white and border radius.
So don't want to focus too much time on what we're doing here with the see assess.
So we're going to create some quick CSSA here in order so we can get that styling.
And then lastly the font size and of course you can always customize it afterwards to make it look look
different look better and have some of the contents stand out more.
So basically there we go.
So we've got our button and we've also got two message areas.
So let's set those up as well.
And these are just divs and we're going to use classes so message one
and first.
Let's put a default placeholder there so welcome message.
And actually let's just use IDs.
So Id so message one and message to message to say click start
and then we also need a game area.
So let's give this one an ID and this will be where output goes.
So basically this is our container for the game and this is all we really need for h t m l.
So the next thing that we need I need to also add a little bit more styling.
So before we begin I need to set up a box area.
So these are these boxes here that you see here on the right hand side.
So they're actually boxes that are 100 by 100.
And this is where I'm containing the names and it's text line.
So we're centralizing the text and I've also got a border around it as well.
And this is just a simple black border
and I'm also going to display it as inline blocks so that they stack so inline block so transform it
from block to inline block because these are going to be divs or whatever we build them Motown's.
So the next thing that we need to do is create some arrays.
So first of all we need an array to hold the brain new elements that we're creating or the names that
we're going to be creating from the other array.
So that's basically the Mirei is our holder array.
And this one is going to be an actual array with some contents.
So we've got some names that we're going to fill out there and these could be anything so for us.
Right now I've just got nine default names there that we can use.
And then lastly we need one more variable and I'm just going to call this one key.
So this is going to give us the ability to basically.
So this will hold the value that we need to search for.
So basically right now it's holding Lawrence and that's the key.
So that's the value that's being searched for.
So our first function that we're going to encounter is start.
So this one is the one that actually starts the game.
So let's add that one in first.
So function and we're initiating that from the On Click attribute over here.
So we're just initiating start.
So this is starting the game.
So the first set we need to do within starting in the game we need to build out this my array and we
can populate it with information from over here from people.
So let's do that first.
So let's take my array and what we're going to do is we're going to take people and we're going to slice
from our people every
So what this does is this basically duplicates the contents of people array into Miree.
So if you just do migrate close people then we're going to be tying the values together.
And if we're removing from my array we're going to remove from people.
So that's one of those quirks was javascript where if you're copying arrays you've got to do it this
way.
So this is the format to copy one array into another.
So the next thing that we need to do is I want to randomize this array because you notice that within
here they're not within the same order as not array is.
So let's do a way to randomize and we can do it with array sort.
And this is another really tricky little function that comes in useful.
That gives you the ability to sort and array.
So we're sorting the array function within here and we're returning within the array.
So it's 0.5.
Minus math random.
So this is just a formula you can use as well.
So this is a way to randomize the array.
And then what I'll do is a console log out the my array so we can take a look at what we're doing here
within the function.
So just to make sure that everything is working so far.
So let's go back it will refresh it.
So we've got our start.
And when we click start then where we've got our array there so we're clicking at.
And you can see here that every time I click it I get another random assortment available to me.
So I keep clicking and I'm getting a new randomising of the array so that everything is working.
And so far so good.
We've randomized the rate so Nexen that we need to do is we need to build out the application and then
we need to run a function.
So we need to build out game area and we need to after we build up the game area we need to run find
the name.
So we need to ask the user to find a name.
So what I want you to do now pause the video.
Open up your editor and create the same format that I have.
Create an array and then copy that array into another array and then you'll notice that once you sort
it if you do it this way.
So first try it with the slice and you're going to find that you're actually sorting people as well.
When you do the sort function.
So this one you probably have to to copy out this statement here as it's a real short format for shuffling
an array.
We could also use the functionality that we had looked out earlier where we built that function to shuffle
arrays although this is shorter.
You can take out one as well and bring that into this project so it will do the same thing where you
could pass that new newly built array and then shuffle that array information.
So I want you to do as well is to create a function called build.
So this is the one we're going to be building our game board and we've done this before as well in a
previous exercise where we can loop through a series of values and we can build out some h t m l.
So what we want to do this time is we want to loop through all of the values in the array so it's actually
going to be the might or not the people array.
Loop through all of them and build out a set of divs that have the contents of these elements within
them.
And I'll show you how to do this in the upcoming lesson.